changes                      spec 2.9 Release Notes                      changes

NAME
     changes - highlights of modifications for ssppeecc release 2.9

DESCRIPTION

     These notes summarize the modifications made for ssppeecc release 2.9, as
     finalized on October 10, 1988.

CHANGES

     Invoking ssppeecc with --yy will force the motor registers to be changed to agree
     with the settings file when the program starts up.  If you are confident
     the settings file is okay, and know the motor registers have been wiped
     out, say by shutting off crate power, then this option ought to be just the
     thing.

     The message noting the discrepancy between motor-controller registers and
     program memory now shows the values of each in user units (angles) in
     addition to steps.

     Hitting a hard motor limit will cause the program to reset to command
     level, whether in a scan or in a command file.  Previously, although motor
     motion was aborted on a hard limit, command execution continued.

     The pprrddeeff command now shows backslashes associated with escaped delimiter
     characters within a macro definition, as in:

        ddeeff ssiillllyy ''pprriinntt ""WWhhoo\\''ss oonn ffiirrsstt??""''

     Previously, these backslashes were not shown.

     All instances of the command mmoovvee__aallll in the standard macros have been
     replaced by the macro mmoovvee__eemm.  The default definition of mmoovvee__eemm is simply
     mmoovvee__aallll.  The purpose of mmoovvee__eemm is to make it easy for the user to
     include limit checks of moves that involve more than one motor by
     redefining mmoovvee__eemm.

     A new macro mmeesshh that performs a mesh scan of any two motors is included.

     The wwmm and uuwwmm macros now check that their arguments are valid motor names.

     A new built-in command llooccaall (with the same syntax as the gglloobbaall command)
     can be used to reuse a preexisting variable name and give the new instance
     of that name scope only within and below the curly-bracketed block in which
     it is defined.  A known bug with the current implementation is that you
     cannot use the gglloobbaall keyword at the same level or lower to uunnllooccaalliizzee use
     of a previously local-declared variable name.

     The motor screen for the eeddccoonnff configuration and settings editor now wraps
     around when changing motor columns instead of sticking at motor 0 or at the
     last motor.

     The CAMAC drivers can be optionally compiled either to allow only the super
     user to issue a ZZ or to allow any user to issue a ZZ.  Previously, it was
     only super-user only.

     This release supports the 386/ix operating system on 80386-based machines.
     See the 338866 help file.

