IP28                                hardware                                IP28

NAME
     IP28 - Microcontrole motor indexer

DESCRIPTION

     The Microcontrole IP28 is a 4-axis motor indexer for use with stepping
     motors or with direct current motors with encoders.  It is interfaced
     either via RS-232C or by GPIB (IEEE 488).  Being programmable, an entire
     motion sequence, including backlash, may be down loaded, thus retaining the
     asynchronous nature of moves.

     Normally, power is supplied by TL78A power units which can be very simply
     multiplexed using the 4-bits of the programmable outputs of the IP28.
     Thus, up to 32 motors can be controlled by one IP28.  Unfortunately, this
     usage presents the two following difficulties:

         1. only four motors (of the same bank) may be moved simultaneously, and

         2. the internal registers can only keep track of the positions of four
            axes.

     One solution is to keep track of all motor positions using separate
     readable up/down counters (such as the Microcontrole HC 88).  Another
     solution is to always work with relative displacements and to keep track of
     the positions by the software.  This is technique is currently employed by
     ssppeecc.  Consistency is insured by searching for a mechanical origin (switch
     or optical encoder).  Note that the TL78 power modules display a position
     (usually set to the user angle) so that angles are not really lost when
     switching banks.  Generally, the hardware is homogeneous so there is little
     or no problem about loosing steps (which results in a "controle d'ecart",
     anyways).  One must beware when restarting from a power failure, and search
     for the origin for each axe (see below).

     One cannot set the internal registers - only define zeros.  Thus, we ignore
     the IP28's floating zero and only use its mechanical zero.  This is set by
     the command "O[WXYZ];\r" which is incorporated in ssyynncc(()) and in the ssppeecc
     command cchhgg__ddiiaall((mmoottoorr,, 00)).  Changing a dial setting to a non-zero value
     disables hardware angle tracking, re-enabled by searching for the
     mechanical origin.  IP28 users will probably want to undefine the macro
     sseett__ddiiaall and define a new macro zzeerroo - this macro SHOULD NOT MODIFY THE
     USER OFFSETS! (see mmaaccrrooss//ssuurrff..cceeaa).

     ssppeecc tries to make best use of the IP28.  Most of the above problems can be
     avoided if one puts the four, most often used motors (4-axes) on one TL 78A
     bank.  Note that a bank may consist of several TL78A chassis which may be
     not fully occupied when using large motors due to a limitation in power.

BUGS AND CAVEATS

     Besides being able to only track 4 motors at a time, positions may be read
     only after motion has terminated.  Thus, ssppeecc updated move macros cannot be
     used with the IP28.

SEE ALSO

     _c_o_n_f_i_g _z_e_r_o

